First draft for user guide PR (#166)
neoforged/Documentation: userguide/docs/faq.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

> This section aims to answer some common questions as well as covering some pitfalls you might experience when using the NeoForge installer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section aims to answer some common questions as well as covering some pitfalls you might experience when installing and using NeoForge.
```

## Troubleshooting the NeoForge Installer

For most users the installer should run without error.

> If the installer runs but pops up an error dialog box while executing, see the [NeoForge Installer Log File] section below.

Reviewer: This introduction can be omitted imo. Maybe mention the "If the installer gives you an error box" part in the NeoForge Log Files section below.

### Troubleshooting the NeoForge Installer on Windows

> File associations for executing Java applications are sometimes missing or otherwise misconfigured.

Reviewer: Merge with next paragraph.

For example, running the installer may momentarily flash up a black window, present the `Open with ...` dialog box, or it might open in a file archiving program such as WinRAR or 7-Zip.

> To fix this, download and run (double-click) [JarFix], a program designed to fix broken or missing file associations.

Reviewer: Merge with next paragraph.

Once complete, restart your computer and try running the installer again.

### Troubleshooting the NeoForge Installer on Linux

> File associations for executing Java applications are often missing completely on Linux distributions.
> 
> In order to run the installer you may need to execute it manually in a terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File associations for executing Java applications are often missing completely on Linux distributions. As such, in order to run the installer, you may need to execute it manually in a terminal.
```

For instance, with an installer for NeoForge version `21.1.54`, running the following in a terminal should bring up its GUI:

```
$ java -jar neoforge-21.1.54-installer.jar
```

> For pointers on finding a terminal application on Linux, see the [Locating a Terminal Application] section in the [Checking for and Installing Java] article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Locating a Terminal Application] section in the [Checking For and Installing Java] article for how to find a terminal application on Linux.
```

### NeoForge Installer Log File

When experiencing issues with the NeoForge installer, you might be asked to provide its log file, which should be created in the same directory the installer itself resides in.

> For example, the installer for version `21.1.54` should create a file with the name of `neoforge-21.1.54-installer.jar.log`.

Reviewer 2: This feels oddly out of place. It should be prefaced on where the log file is used. For example, the log file indicates the steps NeoForge took to install, and asking for help anywhere will usually be followed by a question for the log file.

## Troubleshooting NeoForge

You might run into problems when trying to launch Minecraft with NeoForge installed.

> This can happen for a number of reasons, including out-dated and/or buggy graphics card (GPU) drivers.

Reviewer: This paragraph feels out of place, GPU issues are outlined below in more detail anyway.

> First, check to see whether Minecraft without NeoForge works.  If the game launches successfully and does not crash, read on.

Reviewer: This should contain more steps. The steps should be:
- Run Minecraft without Neo at all
- Run Neo without any mods
- (Maybe) Binary-searching for broken mods, or asking for support on the Discord

> If Minecraft by itself crashes, you will not be able to install NeoForge.

Reviewer 2: It might be best to redirect this to Mojang's FAQ or troubleshooting guide.

### Updating GPU Drivers

> Due to an interaction between NeoForge's early-loading screen and out-dated/buggy GPU drivers, Minecraft may crash.
> 
> This can sometimes be fixed by updating the drivers for your GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to an interaction between NeoForge's early loading screen and outdated/buggy GPU drivers, Minecraft may crash. This can sometimes be fixed by updating the drivers for your GPU.
```

> Linked below are tools for the three most common GPU manufacturers, which can be used to download and install driver updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list contains links to the three most common GPU manufacturers' websites, which can be used to download and install driver updates:
```

- **Intel**: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/support/detect.html
- **AMD**: https://www.amd.com/en/support
- **NVIDIA**: https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx

:::note

> It is possible that your computer may have multiple GPUs.

Reviewer: Merge with the next paragraph.

For example, a laptop might have one integrated into the CPU itself as well as a dedicated (discrete) GPU.
:::

> If you do not know who manufactured your GPU, how many you have, or even which drivers to update, see the [Further Help] section of the main article for a link to the NeoForged project's Discord server, where you can ask for help.

Reviewer: Linking the discord directly here is fine imo, as this is a very specific problem.
